hey guys Jay here welcome back so in
this lesson we're going to look at TOEFL
reading skill number 7 which is negative
fact what what is a negative fact I'm
gonna teach you what this question type
is all about in fact I'm gonna teach you
how to understand the question type I'm
going to teach you how to answer it
accurately it is a little bit tricky
this one so it takes a little bit to get
your head around so first of all I'm
going to describe the task to you I'll
teach you a method and then I'll give
you the opportunity to practice for
yourself ok so let me first describe
this task to you first of all this
question asks you to identify which fact
is not found in the passage so what's
going to happen is you have four answer
options three of the answer options
three of these facts will be in the
passage one of them either won't be in
the passage or will be inaccurate so
you're actually choosing the one that's
not in the passage that's what's
negative fact okay so the question this
question will have the words accept or
not in the prompts so that's how we'll
identify it
you'll be given four options you must
choose which one is wrong or not
mentioned okay cool so this is what it
will look like on test day let's look at
that question prompt you can see here
the word accept or it may have the word
not as in not mentioned let's just read
it it says according to paragraph four
all of the following statements are true
of the impact at the end of the
Cretaceous period except one of these
cool so that's fine step one read the
question and the answer option so let's
now read it again with the answer
options according to paragraph four all
of the following statements are true of
the impact at the end of the Cretaceous
period except that a large amount of
dust blocked the Sun sunlight from earth
that earth became cold and dark for
several months that new elements were
formed in the Earth's crust that large
quantities quantities of nitric acid
were produced
so three of these will be in here and
correct and one of them won't be or will
be incorrect all right so we've done
that step to scan the passage to find
the fact okay we in fact need to find
the facts so now we're going to what
we're going to do is we're going to read
this passage and every time we see one
of these in here we'll tick it and what
we're going to be left with is one
that's not in here let's read it let's X
in fact let's read these again so a
large amount of dust block the sunlight
from earth earth became cold and dark
for several months new elements were
formed in Earth's crust large quantities
of nitric acid were produced this is
from the impact of an asteroid I suspect
this impact released an enormous amount
of energy excavating a crater about
twice as large as the lunar crater Tycho
the explosion lifted about a hundred
trillion tons of dust into the
atmosphere as can be determined by
measuring the thickness of the sediment
layer formed when this dust settled to
the surface such a quantity of material
would have blocked the sunlight
completely from reaching the surface mmm
okay plunging earth into a period of
cold and darkness that lasted several
months the explosion is also calculated
to have produced vast quantities of
nitric acid and melted rock that sprayed
out over much of Earth studying
widespread fires that must have consumed
most terrestrial forest and grassland
presumably those environmental disasters
could have been responsible for the mass
extinction including the death of the
dinosaurs okay fine step three read the
answer options and eliminate the ones
that are found in the passage well we
just did that we just did that so we
eliminated the ones that are found in
the passage so we found these facts in
the passage didn't we because they're in
there we saw them they're written in
different ways but those facts are in
the passage
step four choose the remaining answer
remember it should be the fact that is
not in the passage or contradicts what
is said in the passage and we found that
didn't we
because see new elements were formed in
Earth's crust was just simply not
mentioned in here this is the negative
fact this is the one that we choose that
is the correct answer
practice your turn I want you to pause
the video give yourself a good minute or
two on this one because it's quite a
significant amount of text I want you to
find the fact that is not mentioned or
is inaccurate pause the video I'll see
you in a second
how'd you go let's look at the answers
or the answer I should say cool the
answer is in fact D so according to
paragraph four all of the following
statements are true of the recent
discovery of 17 mummies in Egypt accept
the fact that mummies were found in
shallow graves this is either not
mentioned or is incorrect that is the
answer hopefully you've got that by the
way if you're watching this on youtube
please click it like it was a like don't
forget to subscribe to this channel -
that would be cool right for TOEFL
success go to e - language comm because
you might need to do more practice of
negative fact type questions or if you
need help with writing or speaking or
TOEFL listening you name it we are the
people we have tutorials live classes
heaps of practice material everything
you need for total success see you soon